Basic File Operations
Now that we have some files to work with, let's learn how to copy, move, and delete them.

Before proceeding, ensure you are in the /home/labex/project/linux_practice directory. If not, utilize the cd command to navigate to the correct directory.

Let's copy hello.txt to a new file called hello_copy.txt:
cp hello.txt hello_copy.txt
 Explain Code
cp stands for "copy". The first argument is the source file, the second is the destination.

Now, let's move hello_copy.txt to the parent directory:
mv hello_copy.txt ..
 Explain Code
mv stands for "move". The .. represents the parent directory (one level up).

Let's remove file1.txt:
rm file1.txt
 Explain Code
rm stands for "remove". Be careful with this command – in Linux, deleted files don't go to a Recycle Bin!

List the contents of the current directory to see the changes:
ls
 Explain Code
Now, list the contents of the parent directory to see the moved file:
ls ..
 Explain Code
These commands – cp, mv, and rm – are some of the most frequently used in day-to-day Linux operations.

Continue

labby
Labby
Inspect Result
Check if hello_copy.txt was created
Check if file1.txt was deleted
Check if hello_copy.txt was moved
Continue

labby
Labby
Using Command Line Shortcuts
Linux provides several helpful shortcuts to make your command line experience more efficient. Let's try some of them:

Use the up arrow key (↑) to recall the last command you typed. Try pressing it now – you should see your last command appear!

Use Tab completion:
Type cat h and then press the Tab key. It should auto-complete to cat hello.txt.
This feature saves a lot of typing and helps prevent spelling mistakes.

Use Ctrl+C to interrupt a running command:
Type the following command and press Enter:

tail -f /dev/null
 Explain Code
This command will wait for input indefinitely. Now press Ctrl+C to stop it. This is useful when a command is taking too long or you want to stop a continuous output.

Use Ctrl+L to clear the screen:
Your terminal might be getting cluttered. Press Ctrl+L to clear it and give yourself a fresh view.

These shortcuts will make your Linux experience much smoother as you become more proficient.
